so in this video we are going to talk through potential
issues you may have with the next
section of the course when we need to
make sure that Python or some
of the tools of Python are working
on the command line so what you need to
do first on your Windows machine is you
need to open your command your command
prompt and you normally click on the Windows
prompt the Windows button in the
bottom left hand corner of your screen and
click on the run option so you select
Run and a little window where you can
type in
cmd for command prompt an open that and
you should get a little black screen pop up
and if you can't find that just do a
search for command prompt so basically
when I opened it up and I'm gonna do is
show you a screen where the command
isn't working so if you get a screen like this
on the screen and you can see it got my
windows open at the moment and notice how I have
typed in the commands pip I
pressed enter and I got pip is not
recognized as an internal or external
command so try doing that and if you get the
error get the error that says that it's
not working then you need to follow the
instructions here to modify your Python
installation now this is a assuming that
you've actually gone ahead and installed
Python and obviously if got to this stage of
course presumably have done that if by
chance you haven't installed the full Python
installation before you haven't got
it running in IntelliJ then watch
towards the end of this video and I'll
take you through the new installation
but I am going to assume that you've basically gone
through the installation but you are still
getting an error and will need to get
this pip command working so we're going
to show you what to do
the first thing you need to do is you
need to open up your Python
installation again so double click the
file that you downloaded for Python and
once you do that you should come up with this
modified set up and one you can also do
which I won't show on the screen but you
can go into the Windows setup and you
can come into the uninstall program
options select Python and you should have
an option to modify so if you do get that
you get the screen to come up like this you
wanna click on modify so you don't want to
click on uninstall
click on modify and once you do that you
get this next screen you should get a screen
that looks like that so what you want to do
is make sure that
all those options are ticked
documentation pip tcl / TK and IDLE and
Python tests suite so basically have everything ticked on the screen and if it has
other options there now that you don't
see on the screen shots that is different on
your machine
have those ticked as well and click on Next what
should do is get a screen that looks very
similar to this and make sure that the
options I've shown are selected at
the very least associate files with Python
create shortcuts and add Python into
environment variables so those are the important
ones particularly that third one add Python to
environment variables because that's
actually how we get it to work
so that when you type pip it will find the path to Python on
your machine so without doing that you
are not going to be able to get it to work so make sure
you select at the very least that option add Python to environment variables and if it
happens to be worded slightly different
if it uses the Path or something like
that
select that option and once you've done that
click on install button as you see on the screen
their and what you'll do you find that
it'll be fairly quick and it'll come up
and say modification was successful modify was
successful at that point you finish the
modification of your existing Python
installation and now we can go back
and tests if our pip commands works again
so going back and show you and do
that so now when you type pip you should
get something like this on-screen if you
type pip instead of getting that to unknown
command that we got at the start of
the video you should get something like
that shows that it's working and
if you've got this and pip and you've
got that coming up on your screen your
good to go and you can finish the video
now and move on to the next video now if
you are at the stage where you are
installing this for the first time then
continue watching but again if you've
got it working you've already had it
installed and you follow these options
and it's working
you don't need to watch the rest of the
video but for everyone else I'm gonna
show you how to go about it on a new
installation on Windows of Python so
once you've downloaded it for the first
time you get a screen similar to this
and important thing I'm going to get you
to do is in the next screen slide is to
click on the Add Python 3.5 on the path down
the bottom of the screen and that's very
important to actually to add and that's
going to be how this will actually work
for you without having to go through the
modification so click on that you
should have a screen some
like that once its clicked on that and
then moving on the next thing to do is
to click on Customize installation so
selecting that option as you can see
on the screen once you do that once you click
on customize installation you will get the
screen that I'm just about to show you
now and it will come up with all these
options so basically you want to select
everything on the screen that you can
and if your screen looks slightly different to this
maybe you got a different version of python
at some point in the future from when I
recorded this video just select
everything on screen it doesn't really
matter but you wanna make sure at the very
least that pup installed pip is the one
that we're gonna be using but it won't
hurt to have everything else installed and it's
probably the best thing to do so click
on all those options and click on Next
down the bottom of the screen once you
do that you get a screen that looks very
similar to this now you can go ahead and
click on install for all users if you
want and you can click on some of the
other options
the one that you really must click is add Python to
environment variables that's the
one that will actually enable this
command to work so that we can actually
use that command line option and the install
for all users is also optional and
it won't hurt to click on associated files with
Python and create shortcuts really don't
need to worry about pre compile standard
standard library and download debugging symbols and
download debug libraries they are only
optional it is not something you need to worry
about and once you do that click on
install what you'll see is you get a screen
similar to this loading on the screen
and that will go ahead and install
Python so it will take a few minutes to
actually go through and finish the
installation and when its finally done you
get a screen similar to that set up was
successful and you be able to click on close and you'll be good to go
and go ahead and configure Python in IntelliJ and one other thing you can
do just to double check is you can open a
command prompt and I mention how to do
at the start of the video click on that
in type in pip
and you should get this sort of output
something along those lines should work
and if it doesn't work it means probably
you didn't click on the path environment
variables option and if necessary that
still not working
reboot the computer and it
should the work so that's it that's the
installation options for Windows so at
this point you can now move on to the
next video